I felt very stuck in not knowing which direction to go.
Um, very paralyzed in my actions. So
I'd thought and discerned the
priesthood for about 12 years.
It was a lot more of discerning discernment.
I'd never considered discernment
before someone reached out to me.
I didn't know how to discern. Kind
of just kept it at the back of my mind.
At some point in our relationship with the Lord,
especially in high school, college,
or the early years of a career, our willingness to say,
yes, I will follow you.
Jesus ought to be expressed with the honest question.
How do you want me to follow you, Jesus, for the disciple,
the question is not whether he has a plan,
whether his plans are good,
or even whether I will follow his plans.
The question is, what are his plans?
My name is Father Greg Gerhardt.
I'm the vocation director in the Diocese of Austin.
And for the past several years, I've been walking
with young men seeking to answer that question,
and I've been able to recommend Good Books,
host discernment retreats,
and put on all kinds of events
to help people discern God's will for the life.
But I haven't seen anything bear as much fruit in the lives
of young men as discernment 180.
Discernment 180 is a six month guide
to discern the priesthood, and six months gives time
and space for the Lord to move in our hearts,
to help us want what he wants
and strengthen us to follow wherever he leads.
Alright, so what's involved in Discernment 180?
Well, it consists of following a rule of life
for six months, daily reflections in those 180 days,
and four effective discernment actions.
So first, the rule of life.
It's prayer, sacrament, study, service, and virtue.
Putting these spiritual practices in your life in an ordered
way allows you to grow in holiness,
and that's the foundation of all vocational discernment.
Then the daily reflections, we'll be reading through St.
Francis de Sales scripture readings, papal writings, lies
of the Saints, and then more scripture readings.
It's going to help you focus in your prayer for
how the Lord is calling you to follow him.
And then finally, the four discernment actions they include
going on a discernment retreat, visiting a seminary,
engaging in a dating fast,
and meeting with the spiritual director.
Now, these practices, they're nothing new.
Spiritual directors and vocation directors have
been recommending them for years.
What D 180 does is put them all in one intentional period
of discernment, and that bears
so much more fruit than any one
of these actions on their own.
Discernment 180 eliminates the problem of vague,
haphazard discernment,
and it helps men rise to the occasion
of answering God's call.
I've walked with men who have finished discernment 180
that felt peace and freedom about moving towards marriage.
and received peace, joy,
and zeal about following him in the priesthood.
I haven't walked with men who are upset that they did it.
Discernment 180 teaches the essentials
of holiness and discernment.
It facilitates growth in prayer and in virtue,
and most importantly, it draws men closer to the Lord.
Who is the only one that can answer the question?
How do you want me to follow you? Jesus.
Through the program, I had a structure to follow
that helped me get through that process.
Now I'm gonna be a seminarian. After
The Sermon 180, I've peacefully closed
the door. On the seminary,
I was able to move forward with confidence
to pursue engagement with my girlfriend.
I realized my true, authentic desire to give my life over
to Christ as his priest.
Discernment 180 is for you if you're looking
for a concrete structure to discern your vocation.
Discernment 180 is
for you if you feel stuck in your discernment.
Discernment 180 is for you.
If you've never thought about the priesthood,
If you want to get outta your head,
stop thinking and start moving.
Are you ready to get serious about
discerning your vocation?
Discernment 180 is for you.